# GPS-Tracker-with-ESP8266-and-NEO-6M-microcontroller
I made a simple GPS tracker device for a car-rental system using NEO-6m GPS module and ESP8266 controller. I pushed the data obtained from the NEO-6M GPS module to the web server and hosted database using ESP8266. I used ESP8266 module to send the POST request to server using a PHP API. Latitude and longitude information of the car was sent to the database every 2 minutes by this GPS tracker. I will provide you with the Arduino Code uploaded to the ESP8266 as well as the code for Laravel API used throughout this project, in this repository.
First, Get your self ESP8266 or any version of it with Wi-Fi capabilities and a NEO-6M GPS module.Be careful and do little research on NEO-6M module, make sure that you are purchasing original NEO-6M by U-blox. There are lots of chienese versions available in market.
Now, include the ESP8266 library in your arduino IDE and also add TinyGPS and TinyGPS++ libraries. 
Upload the GPS_test_working.ino code on your ESP8266 and open the serial monitor.P.S Make sure you are listening to proper baudrate.
Now, a little trouble appears, You will get empty data separated by commas shown in your serial monitor. Then, don't panic, have patience. And make sure that your GPS antenna is facing clear sky and there are no buildings around that area. You may go to the park or on the sahara desert where there are not any buildings around your.haha
Even your GPS antenna is seeing clear sky. It will take sometime to lock with satellite and start getting valid NMEA sequences. They say it will take 2 minutes for cold start and less than 30s for hot start. But trust me, It could take you upto 20-25 minutes depending on quality of your antenna. 
After seeing almost complete NMEA sequences in serial monitor(You don't need 100% complete data on the serial monitor, 95% will work for you if you just need latitude and longitude information), I don't know why but my GPS module never shown complete data there was always a field of 4 commas in one of the sequence, Despite of that i was getting accuraete latitude and longitude information.
Finally, You have to prepare your API. You can make API in any way you fil comfortable but i made it using Laravel, PHP.
Now, Open the GPS_push_data_final.ino program, and edit your wifi credentials, url of your API. Hit upload.
Congratulations!! your GPS tracker should be working from now and it sends latitude and logitude every 48 seconds to your database.
